README.md, before:

# MinIO S3

[MinIO] is an open source object storage server with support for the S3 API.
This means that you can run your very own S3 deployment from your homelab.

My uses of this include:

- object storage for a private [Docker Registry]
- storing backups created by [Restic]
- backend storage for logs ingested by [Grafana Loki]
- any other random things

This repository contains instructions and Kubernetes manifest files for
deploying MinIO into a K3s cluster.

**UPDATE: 7 Nov 2021**: This repository has been upgraded to
RELEASE.2021-10-27T16-29-42Z from MinIO RELEASE.2020-10-28T08-16-50Z-arm64.
There have been a number of changes between versions so check the release notes
for more information if you are upgrading. The configuration and instructions
from this repository for the previous release are still available from the
[v1.0.0 tag].

## K3s Deployment

[K3s] is a lightweight, certified Kubernetes distribution, for production
workloads from Rancher Labs. I run K3s on my Raspberry Pi cluster, into which
MinIO has been deployed. See [raspberry-pi-k3s-homelab] for more information on
this.

### Create Root User and Password

The username and password of the root user need to be created as secrets and
provided as environment variables. I have used a similar format as the AWS
secret key and secret access key, as this was the pattern used for earlier MinIO
naming conventions. This highlighted a couple of gotchas with the S3 url format
when integrating some apps with this, which I have documented in this README.md
file.

These need to be in base64 format as they will be added to the
`200-secrets.yaml` file to be created as secrets in Kubernetes.

```sh
$ echo -n 'my-access-key' | base64
bXktYWNjZXNzLWtleQ==
$ echo -n 'myXXXxxx/secretXXXXxxx/keyXXxxx' | base64
bXlYWFh4eHgvc2VjcmV0WFhYWHh4eC9rZXlYWHh4eA==
```

### Persistent Volume Claim

The `100-pvc.yaml` file contains a Persistent Volume Claim using the K3s [local
path provisioner] `local-path` storage class. In my homelab I have an external
hard drive to store these objects. The `400-deployment.yaml` file contains node
affinity configuration to ensure that the pod is scheduled onto the node
containing the external storage. See [External Hard Drive for Persistent
Storage] for more information on my K3s configuration for this.

The below section from the `400-deployment.yaml` file can be removed if you do
not wish to use node affinity, e.g. only have a single node, or have a NFS
server for shared storage, etc.

```yaml
affinity:
  nodeAffinity:
    requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
      nodeSelectorTerms:
        - matchExpressions:
            - key: disktype
              operator: In
              values:
                - hdd
```

### Ingress Route

My K3s cluster uses [Traefik v2] as the Kubernetes ingress controller and the
`IngressRoute` resource it provides. You can just as easily use the standard
Kubernetes `Ingress` resource, or other such ingress controller annotations or
configuration methods.

The `500-ingressroute.yaml` file specifies the usage of TLS and associated
certificate resolver. You should always use HTTPS when accessing resources,
especially over the internet. You can update that file as necessary to work with
your deployment, e.g. using a different Traefik endpoint and removing the `tls`
section. In this example `tlsresolver` is a certificate resolver configured in
Traefik to use Let's Encrypt and the `tlsChallenge` type.

Note that there is a `console.minio.example.com` entry as well as a
`minio.example.com`. When accessing MinIO via the browser using
<https://minio.example.com> you will be automatically redirected to the MinIO
Console at <https://console.minio.example.com>. The MinIO Console is used for
both administering the system, as well as standard user access when navigating
buckets.

### OpenID Connect and Keycloak

MinIO supports authentication using OpenID Connect and providers such as
[Keycloak]. If you are wanting to use username and password authentication only,
and not wanting to integrate with OpenID Connect then the below environment
variables can be removed from the `400-deployment.yaml` file.

```yaml
- name: MINIO_IDENTITY_OPENID_CONFIG_URL
  value: https://keycloak.example.com/auth/realms/home/.well-known/openid-configuration
- name: MINIO_IDENTITY_OPENID_CLIENT_ID
  value: minio
- name: MINIO_IDENTITY_OPENID_CLIENT_SECRET
  value: cad5f999-81e6-4791-afef-86ddd18ae3df
```

If integrating with Keycloak the MinIO docs on this were pretty good, see
<https://github.com/minio/minio/blob/master/docs/sts/keycloak.md>. I used a new
client named `minio` instead of modifying the existing `account` client in
Keycloak.

See the section further down in the README file for information on setting up a
policy for authorization to MinIO resources using JWT with Keycloak.

## MinIO Client

The [MinIO Client (mc)] can be easily used as to access and administer your
MinIO deployment.

Add an alias that points to your minio deployment.

```sh
$ mc alias set homelab https://minio.example.com XXXXXXXXXXXXXX xxxxXXXxxXXX/XXXXXXX/xxxxxXXXXXXX
Added `homelab` successfully.
```

The configuration and list of aliases can be viewed in the `~/.mc/config.json`
file.

```json
{
  "version": "10",
  "aliases": {
    "homelab": {
      "url": "https://minio.example.com",
      "accessKey": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
      "secretKey": "xxxxXXXxxXXX/XXXXXXX/xxxxxXXXXXXX",
      "api": "s3v4",
      "path": "auto"
    }
  }
}
```

## Users and Groups

- <https://docs.min.io/docs/minio-admin-complete-guide.html#user>
- <https://docs.min.io/docs/minio-admin-complete-guide.html#group>

```sh
$ mc admin user add homelab
Enter Access Key: my-home-user
Enter Secret Key:
Added user `my-home-user` successfully.

$ mc admin group add homelab users my-home-user
Added members {my-home-user} to group users successfully.

$ mc admin user info homelab my-home-user
AccessKey: my-home-user
Status: enabled
PolicyName:
MemberOf: users
```

## Minio Policies

MinIO can be configured with policies to only allow users access to directories
within a bucket based on their username.

- <https://docs.min.io/docs/minio-admin-complete-guide.html#policy>
- <https://docs.min.io/docs/minio-multi-user-quickstart-guide.html>

The below policy will mean that the previously created `my-home-user` will only
be able to perform operations within the `my-home-user` prefix of the `users`
bucket.

```sh
$ mc admin policy add homelab readwriteusers policies/read-write-users.json
Added policy `readwriteusers` successfully.

$ mc admin policy info homelab readwriteusers
{
 "Version": "2012-10-17",
 "Statement": [
  {
   "Effect": "Allow",
   "Action": [
    "s3:ListBucket"
   ],
   "Resource": [
    "arn:aws:s3:::users"
   ],
   "Condition": {
    "StringLike": {
     "s3:prefix": [
      "${aws:username}/*"
     ]
    }
   }
  },
  {
   "Effect": "Allow",
   "Action": [
    "s3:ListMultipartUploadParts",
    "s3:PutObject",
    "s3:AbortMultipartUpload",
    "s3:DeleteObject",
    "s3:GetObject"
   ],
   "Resource": [
    "arn:aws:s3:::users/${aws:username}/*"
   ]
  }
 ]
}
```

Apply the policy to the `users` group so that it comes into effect for all users
belonging to that group.

```sh
$ mc admin policy set homelab readwriteusers group=users
Policy readwriteusers is set on group `users`

$ mc admin group info homelab users
Group: users
Status: enabled
Policy: readwriteusers
Members: my-home-user
```

## Authentication and Authorization with OpenID Connect and OAuth2

Users can be authenticated with MinIO using OpenID Connect. In my deployment I
am using Keycloak as the OpenID Connect Provider. When the MinIO login page is
displayed it will contain an additional link "Log in with OpenID". When clicking
this the user will be redirected to the Keycloak login page, once they have
provided their credentials they will be redirected back to MinIO and logged in
automatically.

A new policy needs to created for authorization to resources accessed using a
JWT that was provided during the OpenID Connect login. This is similar to the
previous `readwriteusers` policy except that the user principal is identified by
the `preferred_username` claim within the JWT.

This policy is **not** set on the `users` group. MinIO will select and enforce
this policy based on the `readwriteusersjwt` name specified in the `policy`
claim of the token.

```sh
$ mc admin policy add homelab readwriteusersjwt policies/read-write-users-jwt.json
Added policy `readwriteusersjwt` successfully.

mc admin policy info homelab readwriteusersjwt
{
 "Version": "2012-10-17",
 "Statement": [
  {
   "Effect": "Allow",
   "Action": [
    "s3:ListBucket"
   ],
   "Resource": [
    "arn:aws:s3:::users"
   ],
   "Condition": {
    "StringLike": {
     "s3:prefix": [
      "${jwt:preferred_username}/*"
     ]
    }
   }
  },
  {
   "Effect": "Allow",
   "Action": [
    "s3:AbortMultipartUpload",
    "s3:DeleteObject",
    "s3:GetObject",
    "s3:ListMultipartUploadParts",
    "s3:PutObject"
   ],
   "Resource": [
    "arn:aws:s3:::users/${jwt:preferred_username}/*"
   ]
  }
 ]
}
```

### Keycloak User Attribute and Claim Token

Keycloak will generate a JWT containing claims for the user when they are
authenticated by Keycloak. MinIO expects that this token contain a specific
claim named `policy` and that the value matches a policy that has been
configured.

On the user account details page in Keycloak for the `my-home-user` user under
the _Attributes_ tab I have added an attribute with the name `minio-policy` and
the value `readwriteusersjwt`. In the configuration for the `minio` client I
have created an attribute mapping with the name "Minio Policy". This is a
`User Attribute` _Mapper Type_ with the _User Attribute_ value of "minio-policy"
and the _Token Claim Name_ of "policy". This means that when the user is
authenticated it will retrieve "readwriteusersjwt" from the user's
"minio-policy" attribute and use it for the value of the "policy" token claim.

### Troubleshooting JWT Authorization

The below error in the Minio logs may be seen when failing to authenticate using
JWT. This can mean that the `policy` claim is missing. Check to ensure that the
`policy` Claim Mapping has been added to the client in Keycloak. Check that this
is mapped to a user attribute belonging to the user attempting to authenticate,
and that the value of this attribute on the user matches the Minio policy name
for the JWT policy, e.g. `readwriteusersjwt`.

```sh
API: AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity()
Time: 07:55:11 UTC 12/07/2020
DeploymentID: f096ff8d-f2a5-46ac-8c74-0b9de20fe2c6
RequestID: 164E6009BEBE4A3F
RemoteHost: 10.42.0.1
Host: minio.example.com
UserAgent: Go-http-client/2.0
Error: policy claim missing from the JWT token, credentials will not be generated
       4: cmd/sts-errors.go:57:cmd.writeSTSErrorResponse()
       3: cmd/sts-handlers.go:335:cmd.(*stsAPIHandlers).AssumeRoleWithSSO()
       2: cmd/sts-handlers.go:423:cmd.(*stsAPIHandlers).AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity()
       1: net/http/server.go:2042:http.HandlerFunc.ServeHTTP()

API: WebLoginSTS()
Time: 07:55:11 UTC 12/07/2020
DeploymentID: f096ff8d-f2a5-46ac-8c74-0b9de20fe2c6
RemoteHost: 10.42.0.1
Host: minio.example.com
UserAgent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_7) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/14.0.1 Safari/605.1.15
Error: 400 Bad Request
      25: cmd/web-handlers.go:2278:cmd.toWebAPIError()
      24: cmd/web-handlers.go:2147:cmd.toJSONError()
      23: cmd/web-handlers.go:2131:cmd.(*webAPIHandlers).LoginSTS()
```

## Tips, Tricks, and Gotchas

### S3 Connection Urls

When configuring applications to connect to S3 the url format for MinIO may
differ from the standard AWS S3 url.

For example, when integrating with Loki the below format is required. This has
some important changes:

- The protocol specifies `https` and not `s3`.
- The hostname in the url contains an extra dot at the end, i.e.
  `minio.example.com./`, which forces S3 to use this as the hostname and not the
  AWS region.
- Any forward slashes contained in the access key or secret key in the url need
  to be escaped. These need to be replaced with `%2F`.

```yaml
aws:
  s3: https://XXXXXXXXXXXXXX:xxxxXXXxxXXX%2FXXXXXXX%2FxxxxxXXXXXXX@minio.example.com./loki
```

<https://github.com/grafana/loki/issues/1434>

## License

[![MIT license]](https://lbesson.mit-license.org/)

[docker registry]: https://docs.docker.com/registry/
[external hard drive for persistent storage]:
  https://github.com/sleighzy/raspberry-pi-k3s-homelab/blob/main/k3s.md#external-hard-drive-for-persistent-storage
[grafana loki]: https://grafana.com/oss/loki/
[k3s]: https://k3s.io/
[keycloak]: https://www.keycloak.org/
[local path provisioner]: https://rancher.com/docs/k3s/latest/en/storage/
[minio]: https://min.io/
[minio client (mc)]: https://docs.min.io/docs/minio-client-complete-guide.html
[mit license]: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg
[raspberry-pi-k3s-homelab]:
  https://github.com/sleighzy/raspberry-pi-k3s-homelab/blob/main/k3s.md
[restic]: https://restic.net/
[traefik v2]: https://traefik.io/traefik/
[v1.0.0 tag]:
  https://github.com/sleighzy/k3s-minio-deployment/releases/tag/v1.0.0

Commit message:

Add note on using consoleAdmin for OpenID Connect policy claim

README.md, after:

# MinIO S3

[MinIO] is an open source object storage server with support for the S3 API.
This means that you can run your very own S3 deployment from your homelab.

My uses of this include:

- object storage for a private [Docker Registry]
- storing backups created by [Restic]
- backend storage for logs ingested by [Grafana Loki]
- any other random things

This repository contains instructions and Kubernetes manifest files for
deploying MinIO into a K3s cluster.

**UPDATE: 7 Nov 2021**: This repository has been upgraded to
RELEASE.2021-10-27T16-29-42Z from MinIO RELEASE.2020-10-28T08-16-50Z-arm64.
There have been a number of changes between versions so check the release notes
for more information if you are upgrading. The configuration and instructions
from this repository for the previous release are still available from the
[v1.0.0 tag].

## K3s Deployment

[K3s] is a lightweight, certified Kubernetes distribution, for production
workloads from Rancher Labs. I run K3s on my Raspberry Pi cluster, into which
MinIO has been deployed. See [raspberry-pi-k3s-homelab] for more information on
this.

### Create Root User and Password

The username and password of the root user need to be created as secrets and
provided as environment variables. I have used a similar format as the AWS
secret key and secret access key, as this was the pattern used for earlier MinIO
naming conventions. This highlighted a couple of gotchas with the S3 url format
when integrating some apps with this, which I have documented in this README.md
file.

These need to be in base64 format as they will be added to the
`200-secrets.yaml` file to be created as secrets in Kubernetes.

```sh
$ echo -n 'my-access-key' | base64
bXktYWNjZXNzLWtleQ==
$ echo -n 'myXXXxxx/secretXXXXxxx/keyXXxxx' | base64
bXlYWFh4eHgvc2VjcmV0WFhYWHh4eC9rZXlYWHh4eA==
```

### Persistent Volume Claim

The `100-pvc.yaml` file contains a Persistent Volume Claim using the K3s [local
path provisioner] `local-path` storage class. In my homelab I have an external
hard drive to store these objects. The `400-deployment.yaml` file contains node
affinity configuration to ensure that the pod is scheduled onto the node
containing the external storage. See [External Hard Drive for Persistent
Storage] for more information on my K3s configuration for this.

The below section from the `400-deployment.yaml` file can be removed if you do
not wish to use node affinity, e.g. only have a single node, or have a NFS
server for shared storage, etc.

```yaml
affinity:
  nodeAffinity:
    requiredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution:
      nodeSelectorTerms:
        - matchExpressions:
            - key: disktype
              operator: In
              values:
                - hdd
```

### Ingress Route

My K3s cluster uses [Traefik v2] as the Kubernetes ingress controller and the
`IngressRoute` resource it provides. You can just as easily use the standard
Kubernetes `Ingress` resource, or other such ingress controller annotations or
configuration methods.

The `500-ingressroute.yaml` file specifies the usage of TLS and associated
certificate resolver. You should always use HTTPS when accessing resources,
especially over the internet. You can update that file as necessary to work with
your deployment, e.g. using a different Traefik endpoint and removing the `tls`
section. In this example `tlsresolver` is a certificate resolver configured in
Traefik to use Let's Encrypt and the `tlsChallenge` type.

Note that there is a `console.minio.example.com` entry as well as a
`minio.example.com`. When accessing MinIO via the browser using
<https://minio.example.com> you will be automatically redirected to the MinIO
Console at <https://console.minio.example.com>. The MinIO Console is used for
both administering the system, as well as standard user access when navigating
buckets.

### OpenID Connect and Keycloak

MinIO supports authentication using OpenID Connect and providers such as
[Keycloak]. If you are wanting to use username and password authentication only,
and not wanting to integrate with OpenID Connect then the below environment
variables can be removed from the `400-deployment.yaml` file.

```yaml
- name: MINIO_IDENTITY_OPENID_CONFIG_URL
  value: https://keycloak.example.com/auth/realms/home/.well-known/openid-configuration
- name: MINIO_IDENTITY_OPENID_CLIENT_ID
  value: minio
- name: MINIO_IDENTITY_OPENID_CLIENT_SECRET
  value: cad5f999-81e6-4791-afef-86ddd18ae3df
```

If integrating with Keycloak the MinIO docs on this were pretty good, see
<https://github.com/minio/minio/blob/master/docs/sts/keycloak.md>. I used a new
client named `minio` instead of modifying the existing `account` client in
Keycloak.

See the section further down in the README file for information on setting up a
policy for authorization to MinIO resources using JWT with Keycloak.

## MinIO Client

The [MinIO Client (mc)] can be easily used as to access and administer your
MinIO deployment.

Add an alias that points to your minio deployment.

```sh
$ mc alias set homelab https://minio.example.com XXXXXXXXXXXXXX xxxxXXXxxXXX/XXXXXXX/xxxxxXXXXXXX
Added `homelab` successfully.
```

The configuration and list of aliases can be viewed in the `~/.mc/config.json`
file.

```json
{
  "version": "10",
  "aliases": {
    "homelab": {
      "url": "https://minio.example.com",
      "accessKey": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
      "secretKey": "xxxxXXXxxXXX/XXXXXXX/xxxxxXXXXXXX",
      "api": "s3v4",
      "path": "auto"
    }
  }
}
```

## Users and Groups

- <https://docs.min.io/docs/minio-admin-complete-guide.html#user>
- <https://docs.min.io/docs/minio-admin-complete-guide.html#group>

```sh
$ mc admin user add homelab
Enter Access Key: my-home-user
Enter Secret Key:
Added user `my-home-user` successfully.

$ mc admin group add homelab users my-home-user
Added members {my-home-user} to group users successfully.

$ mc admin user info homelab my-home-user
AccessKey: my-home-user
Status: enabled
PolicyName:
MemberOf: users
```

## Minio Policies

MinIO can be configured with policies to only allow users access to directories
within a bucket based on their username.

- <https://docs.min.io/docs/minio-admin-complete-guide.html#policy>
- <https://docs.min.io/docs/minio-multi-user-quickstart-guide.html>

The below policy will mean that the previously created `my-home-user` will only
be able to perform operations within the `my-home-user` prefix of the `users`
bucket.

```sh
$ mc admin policy add homelab readwriteusers policies/read-write-users.json
Added policy `readwriteusers` successfully.

$ mc admin policy info homelab readwriteusers
{
 "Version": "2012-10-17",
 "Statement": [
  {
   "Effect": "Allow",
   "Action": [
    "s3:ListBucket"
   ],
   "Resource": [
    "arn:aws:s3:::users"
   ],
   "Condition": {
    "StringLike": {
     "s3:prefix": [
      "${aws:username}/*"
     ]
    }
   }
  },
  {
   "Effect": "Allow",
   "Action": [
    "s3:ListMultipartUploadParts",
    "s3:PutObject",
    "s3:AbortMultipartUpload",
    "s3:DeleteObject",
    "s3:GetObject"
   ],
   "Resource": [
    "arn:aws:s3:::users/${aws:username}/*"
   ]
  }
 ]
}
```

Apply the policy to the `users` group so that it comes into effect for all users
belonging to that group.

```sh
$ mc admin policy set homelab readwriteusers group=users
Policy readwriteusers is set on group `users`

$ mc admin group info homelab users
Group: users
Status: enabled
Policy: readwriteusers
Members: my-home-user
```

## Authentication and Authorization with OpenID Connect and OAuth2

Users can be authenticated with MinIO using OpenID Connect. In my deployment I
am using Keycloak as the OpenID Connect Provider. When the MinIO login page is
displayed it will contain an additional link "Log in with OpenID". When clicking
this the user will be redirected to the Keycloak login page, once they have
provided their credentials they will be redirected back to MinIO and logged in
automatically.

A new policy needs to created for authorization to resources accessed using a
JWT that was provided during the OpenID Connect login. This is similar to the
previous `readwriteusers` policy except that the user principal is identified by
the `preferred_username` claim within the JWT.

This policy is **not** set on the `users` group. MinIO will select and enforce
this policy based on the `readwriteusersjwt` name specified in the `policy`
claim of the token.

```sh
$ mc admin policy add homelab readwriteusersjwt policies/read-write-users-jwt.json
Added policy `readwriteusersjwt` successfully.

mc admin policy info homelab readwriteusersjwt
{
 "Version": "2012-10-17",
 "Statement": [
  {
   "Effect": "Allow",
   "Action": [
    "s3:ListBucket"
   ],
   "Resource": [
    "arn:aws:s3:::users"
   ],
   "Condition": {
    "StringLike": {
     "s3:prefix": [
      "${jwt:preferred_username}/*"
     ]
    }
   }
  },
  {
   "Effect": "Allow",
   "Action": [
    "s3:AbortMultipartUpload",
    "s3:DeleteObject",
    "s3:GetObject",
    "s3:ListMultipartUploadParts",
    "s3:PutObject"
   ],
   "Resource": [
    "arn:aws:s3:::users/${jwt:preferred_username}/*"
   ]
  }
 ]
}
```

### Keycloak User Attribute and Claim Token

Keycloak will generate a JWT containing claims for the user when they are
authenticated by Keycloak. MinIO expects that this token contain a specific
claim named `policy` and that the value matches a policy that has been
configured.

On the user account details page in Keycloak for the `my-home-user` user under
the _Attributes_ tab I have added an attribute with the name `minio-policy` and
the value `readwriteusersjwt`. In the configuration for the `minio` client I
have created an attribute mapping with the name "Minio Policy". This is a
`User Attribute` _Mapper Type_ with the _User Attribute_ value of "minio-policy"
and the _Token Claim Name_ of "policy". This means that when the user is
authenticated it will retrieve "readwriteusersjwt" from the user's
"minio-policy" attribute and use it for the value of the "policy" token claim.

### MinIO Console Administrator

MinIO has a default policy named `consoleAdmin` which allows the user access to
the administration features of the console. If authenticating as an
administrative user via OpenID Connect you will need to add set `consoleAdmin`
as the value for the `minio-policy` user attribute.

### Troubleshooting JWT Authorization

The below error in the Minio logs may be seen when failing to authenticate using
JWT. This can mean that the `policy` claim is missing. Check to ensure that the
`policy` Claim Mapping has been added to the client in Keycloak. Check that this
is mapped to a user attribute belonging to the user attempting to authenticate,
and that the value of this attribute on the user matches the Minio policy name
for the JWT policy, e.g. `readwriteusersjwt`.

```sh
API: AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity()
Time: 07:55:11 UTC 12/07/2020
DeploymentID: f096ff8d-f2a5-46ac-8c74-0b9de20fe2c6
RequestID: 164E6009BEBE4A3F
RemoteHost: 10.42.0.1
Host: minio.example.com
UserAgent: Go-http-client/2.0
Error: policy claim missing from the JWT token, credentials will not be generated
       4: cmd/sts-errors.go:57:cmd.writeSTSErrorResponse()
       3: cmd/sts-handlers.go:335:cmd.(*stsAPIHandlers).AssumeRoleWithSSO()
       2: cmd/sts-handlers.go:423:cmd.(*stsAPIHandlers).AssumeRoleWithWebIdentity()
       1: net/http/server.go:2042:http.HandlerFunc.ServeHTTP()

API: WebLoginSTS()
Time: 07:55:11 UTC 12/07/2020
DeploymentID: f096ff8d-f2a5-46ac-8c74-0b9de20fe2c6
RemoteHost: 10.42.0.1
Host: minio.example.com
UserAgent: Mozilla/5.0 (Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_15_7) AppleWebKit/605.1.15 (KHTML, like Gecko) Version/14.0.1 Safari/605.1.15
Error: 400 Bad Request
      25: cmd/web-handlers.go:2278:cmd.toWebAPIError()
      24: cmd/web-handlers.go:2147:cmd.toJSONError()
      23: cmd/web-handlers.go:2131:cmd.(*webAPIHandlers).LoginSTS()
```

## Tips, Tricks, and Gotchas

### S3 Connection Urls

When configuring applications to connect to S3 the url format for MinIO may
differ from the standard AWS S3 url.

For example, when integrating with Loki the below format is required. This has
some important changes:

- The protocol specifies `https` and not `s3`.
- The hostname in the url contains an extra dot at the end, i.e.
  `minio.example.com./`, which forces S3 to use this as the hostname and not the
  AWS region.
- Any forward slashes contained in the access key or secret key in the url need
  to be escaped. These need to be replaced with `%2F`.

```yaml
aws:
  s3: https://XXXXXXXXXXXXXX:xxxxXXXxxXXX%2FXXXXXXX%2FxxxxxXXXXXXX@minio.example.com./loki
```

<https://github.com/grafana/loki/issues/1434>

## License

[![MIT license]](https://lbesson.mit-license.org/)

[docker registry]: https://docs.docker.com/registry/
[external hard drive for persistent storage]:
  https://github.com/sleighzy/raspberry-pi-k3s-homelab/blob/main/k3s.md#external-hard-drive-for-persistent-storage
[grafana loki]: https://grafana.com/oss/loki/
[k3s]: https://k3s.io/
[keycloak]: https://www.keycloak.org/
[local path provisioner]: https://rancher.com/docs/k3s/latest/en/storage/
[minio]: https://min.io/
[minio client (mc)]: https://docs.min.io/docs/minio-client-complete-guide.html
[mit license]: https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-blue.svg
[raspberry-pi-k3s-homelab]:
  https://github.com/sleighzy/raspberry-pi-k3s-homelab/blob/main/k3s.md
[restic]: https://restic.net/
[traefik v2]: https://traefik.io/traefik/
[v1.0.0 tag]:
  https://github.com/sleighzy/k3s-minio-deployment/releases/tag/v1.0.0
